Work has proceeded according to plan. Besides advancing the three simulation
libraries Simex, McStasScript and Oasys, WP5 continued to work on the
implementation of instrument parameters in libpyvinyl (Task 5.1) in combination
with setting up an instrument database (Task 5.3) and deposition of documented
example simulations in a simulations database (Task 5.2). Furthermore, we made
preparatory steps towards deployment of our simulation services and we are
currently finalizing the protocol for comparison of raw simulated to raw
experimental data (Task 5.4).

The instrument database is implemented as a collection of json files that define
the physical properties of beamline and instrument components and their allowed
ranges as well as numerical parameters relevant for the simulation codes. The
python simulation API libpyvinyl has been modified to reflect this structure of
parameters and their hierarchies. libpyvinyl now exposes methods to query
parameters, their defaults and and permissible ranges from the database e.g.
upon configuration of simulation workflows in McStasScript, Simex, and Oasys.

Oasys workspaces can now be downloaded from a dedicated repository through a
special Oasys widget and then opened in the userâ€™s Oasys installation. Numerous
x-ray beamlines are deposited in the repository, mainly for synchrotron RIs
where the majority of Oasys users are based. In a similar way,
beamline,instrument, and experiment simulation notebooks are collected under the
umbrella of our github project at https://github.com/PaNOSC-ViNYL. As a first
step towards service deployment, we have implemented recipes for the creation of
docker containers that bundle the simulation code, the example notebooks and the
jupyter lab. These containers can be run in a standalone mode or from within
jupyter hub as a cloud service.

More details can be found in our bi-weekly meeting notes which are publicly
available at
https://github.com/PaNOSC-ViNYL/ViNYL-project/wiki/Weekly-Meeting-Notes.

